Pa would have to pay $500 if he didn't show up, and Pa didn't have any
$500 to pay. So he came home. He was altogetherâ€™ two years in the
States. He saved $500 there and came back to Russia with the money. But
he didn't want to give up the money. He was short, not tall enough, so
he thought they wouldn't take him. He came home, and MOther tried to
make him fat, so that in the end he was wider than tall. She fed him
butter and milk. So they examined him and let him go. He was with us
about 6 months, and then he went back. After 6 months there, he sent
for Pa. He was 21 when he went back; it was the time the Titanic went
down, you remember? He was supposed to go on the Titanic, but it was
over-reserved. He couldn't get on it, so he took another boat. When
this boat got to the place where the Titanic went down, they could
still see the iceberg. He wrote us that it was very cold, but the
Captain asked everybody to go up on deck, and they could see _ the
iceberg in the distance. They were dressed in readiness to jump into
the sea should anything happen. It was a few months later, but the
iceberg was still on the water.

6 months after Pa left, we sold the house. Where we worked, was also
like a small house, so we made two rooms out of it and sold it, too.
And with this money, the whole family started out. Moiseh, Sid, Shy, I
and Mother. Mother had two sisters, and since their Mother was in
America, they had no money for the trip. Mother wouldn't leave her
sisters behind., and she had enough money from the sale of the house to
take them along. In the end, they went and we were turned back. The
Mime Manya and the Mime Esther. Manya you remember, but not Esther.
They turned us back because of Sherman - they wouldn't let him on the

Ship. Pa was in America with Isaac, so we couldn't do anything about
it.

They wouldn't let us on the boat because America wouldn't take in a
blind person, so the Captain wouldn't let him on the ship. Mother
wanted Moishe to go, but he said, who would Stay here with us? Sherman
was only 6 years old, and Sid was 8 years old.(It took another 9 years)
And then, the war and the revolution broke out. We couldn't receive
any letters. We didn't have anything to live on.
