32
Mother a girl, then Mother would make the Bris. She wanted a girl more
than anything.

So she sent me to be with the Aunt until she got well. I washed diapers
cleaned the rooms, and did the wash. Ten years old. The Landlady wanted
me to help her in the kitchen as well. I took the child and sat with him
on the oven. He was in swadling clothes. That's the way it was done
there. You would stretch the child out straight, and wrap him around with
his hands at his side- like this.

Father had $600 in a trust, and the trust went broke, so he lost the
$600. Isaac lost a similar amount. He would say, o my, I wanted to have
the money as a dowry for Rochele when she gets here. He figured I must be
23, 24 years old. Fatherâ€™ knew. Mother never knew how old we were;
before Purim, or before Pesach. There were no dates, and no birthday
parties. They knew the boy's birthdays, because they had to go the Army.

Isaac went to America 2 years before, to New York - Philadelphia. He was
18 at the time. He was there 2 years, and when it came time for the
draft, he came home. Father had to pay 500$ which he didn't have. So
Mother fed him until he became wider than tall. That got him out of the
Army, and he returned to America. He was supposed to be on the Titanic.
He left 6 months after his 21st birthday. He told me that I would be 15
years old when he gets there. That I remember. At 15 I could go to work.
That was the second time he went to America.

So Isaac was seven years older than you? Ye. But there were 2 kids after
him, a girl and a boy. Mother used to say that the girl was 5 years old
when she died. Diptheria. There were no doctors. The little boy was 2
when he died. Two children in one year. Mother almost went off her mind.
SHe used to say that actually 3 children died after Azzi amd before me,
but I really don't know. There was a difference of 2 years between each
child, she used to say. She used to talk about it, so that's how I know.

We had heard about the disaster to the Titanic, and when we didn't hear
from Isaac, Mother was sure he was gone. But when his letter came from
America that he had missed the boat, there was a celebration. He wrote,
that he went on the second boat, and that it was so cold that it was
